# Performance observations
These results were generated by running `pnpm bench` on Macbook Air 2020 with 16Gb RAM. 

```text
D = dot
P = pug
S = susskind
V = vanilla


### 1

--- DATA
D 358715 ops/s
P 8200 ops/s
S 9780165 ops/s
V 26860525 ops/s

--- GRAPH
D --------------------
P --------------------
S #######-------------
V ####################


### 10

--- DATA
D 354720 ops/s
P 8380 ops/s
S 2375825 ops/s
V 14111795 ops/s

--- GRAPH
D --------------------
P --------------------
S ###-----------------
V ####################


### 100

--- DATA
D 320405 ops/s
P 8330 ops/s
S 279930 ops/s
V 2764145 ops/s

--- GRAPH
D ##------------------
P --------------------
S ##------------------
V ####################


### 1000

--- DATA
D 164310 ops/s
P 8080 ops/s
S 28270 ops/s
V 309735 ops/s

--- GRAPH
D ##########----------
P --------------------
S #-------------------
V ####################


### 10000

--- DATA
D 26315 ops/s
P 6270 ops/s
S 2640 ops/s
V 29695 ops/s

--- GRAPH
D ###################-
P ####----------------
S #-------------------
V ####################


### 100000

--- DATA
D 2660 ops/s
P 1130 ops/s
S 230 ops/s
V 2730 ops/s

--- GRAPH
D ####################
P #########-----------
S #-------------------
V ####################
```

## The problem
As you can see from the results Susskind is the fastest library when there is less then ±80 items to render. 

However the performance falls exponentially as the number of items grows. With 10000 items it's even slower than Pug.

I suspect the main reason is function call overhead. All other libraries are basically _just_ RegExp matchers. It does have its own overhead as you can see from <1, 10> items results where Susskind is the fastest library. However when this tipping point is crossed the matching overhead seems to be much smaller when compared to composition via functions.

## The solution
You might have noticed that vanilla is always the fastest solution. 

It's crazy fast when there is a small number of items and it's a little bit faster than dot when there is a lot of items. It sustains its leverage over other solutions even when the number of items is over one million.

One solution would be compile-time macros similar to those found in Rust. However TypeScript team has no intentions of adding those. There are some hacks how to intercept TS compiler but that's not a good solution.

Another solution would be a partial evaluator like Prepack. However it's a dead project so it's not a good solution either.

The last option would be something like a babel plugin. However as of writing I have no idea how to implement something like that. 

Potentially if I was able to get rid of all unnecessary function calls I might get a near vanilla code meaning near vanilla performance while retaining modularity and lazy runtime evaluation where needed.
